All right.
So we have the comment system.
We added food comments in one of our posts on this front.
So now any logged in user, they can leave a comment now and begin defer comment and we render the comments
as good to create and read is done.
Now what we need to do is update and delete, right?
So the comments the admin will be able to update and delete and at the same time the users will left
the comment.
Any user can leave a comment, admin, subscriber, author, anyone can leave a comment.
Right?
So if they left the common, then we will show the list of their comments in the dashboard.
Right.
So this is admin, but it's not just for admin but even for any other user due to able to see the list
of comments in the dashboard and they will be able to update and delete.
The difference is if the users admin here will be able to see not only his comments but everyone's comments
part and then admin will be able to update and delete.
So that means we need to now work in our back end, create some routes, controller fonts and some middle
words that will allow the user admin user to update and delete the comment.
So when we're doing that, we also need to fit all the comments.
And if the user is not admin but anyone else, then they will be able to view their own comments and
be able to update and delete their own comments.
All right.
So let's start talking of that.
So let me go to server.
Let's start from root.
Let's go to.
post-Trump.
And here, let's add some more rounds.
We can quit about to get all the comments.
So here are the target
comments and then we will implement resignation as well because you can imagine there can be thousands
of comments.
You don't want to load all of them at once.
So we going to implement pagination.
So we will be getting the base
this one views to have to be logged in.
This is for the admin is admin for now.
Later we will create another one for other users.
Comments.
Okay.
So this for the admin, we're going to store all the comments in that decimal.
So this one, right next one is to work with this spiciness and we need drawn.
We'd need to know how many comments we have in the database.
Right?
So to get that number, we can create another problem.
Don't get
comment count.
We can call that comment comment.
That's a real quick disrupt.
And another one is to delete around a dot.
Delete.
So comment and then to delete, we will send the comment ID so that we can find that particular comment
from the database and then update, right.
So comment it.
We need to send the user must be logged in and instead of his admin, this time we're going to create
a middleware, a different middleware that will take if the user's added then okay, that's okay.
But if user is not admin, they should be able to update or delete the delete the comment if that comment
was created by that user.
Right.
So in server this one, we're going to create another middleware.
We'll come back to this one and we can call it to remove comment.
So that middleware also let me right here can update delete command.
So we're going to create this middleware.
So we have to create that one and let's also create another one for updates.
So we will implement update as well.
So that would be it would vote for beta.
So we're going to send the comment daily, require sign in, can update and delete comment.
We applied that middleware and then this one we call it update comment.
I know you can see one, two, three, four.
So we added this four out.
So that means we need to create these four middleware functions and one new assert a full control of
functions.
And then one middleware function we have to create.
Okay.
So unless you have that, you get the error.
All right.
So make sure we import first.
So that one is comments.
Comments.
Don't object.
Comment, remove comment.
Comments, comment, comment, update, comment, remove comment.
So we have to quit this full control of functions.
All right, let's go to control post.
So let me quickly write them here.
Someday I'm going to quit.
HOBSON I'm going to click.
HOBSON And then why the option key option e option key is pressed.
I'm going to click here, I want to see a command and then the left here and we just going to write
like this.
Export const comments equals to async requests response.
Okay.
Well, actually, we can even do some cards.
Try.
All right.
As you can see, we have these full control of functions in.
List of comments, comment, count of dead and more.
All right.
So that's all for the control of functions.
Now let's make sure we have this middleware as well so that one we can bring from middleware as well
as you.
That's good.
Mealworms.
And then I'll describe that here.
Next that the callback function is important for any middleware gets in the air.
All right.
So now that we have all these control functions and this middleware all imported here, we don't have
any errors.
Perfect.
All right.
Now we can continue working in our control functions.
But before we do that, let me work on this middleware.
I get.
So let me work on this middleware and then we will continue working in our control functions.
So here, basically what you're going to do is we going to take if the uses admin, he can update and
delete if users not admin, that user may be still able to audit ability in order to do it if he created
that comment.
So we have to do that.
All right.
So here first I'm going to do is I'm going to get the comment ID from request params.
So I can do structured comment ID from request params.
Always make sure you get this from you can always console.log if you have some issues.
So you can see here, whenever we want to delete a comment or did a comment that time we are getting
the comment ID in the root params.
So based on that, we can find the comment from the button from the database and then it's common comment,
have the posted by user information.
Right.
So we can take if that comment posted by user ID met with the currently logged in, you decided then
he's the right user, he can delete or did whatever he wants.
All right, so we get the comment ID now let's find the comment.
So constant comment equals to await comment model.
Let's make sure we have that imported on top.
Perfect.
So we find the comment.
We await comment.
Comment, don't find bad.
And that is the commentary.
So we find the comment by commentary and then yeah, we find we find the user based on the the currently
logged news is that we get using the request and mirror.
All right.
So user equals sorry to use a friend by the request to use aid.
So now what we have is we have the comment and we have the currently logged in user.
All right.
So here now we can use switch switches and then it'll switch for the user for all.
So if the rule is added, we don't have to take anything.
Who created the complaint or whatever?
We don't need to it because admin can object and delete anyone's comment.
I guess if the case is admin, if user role is admin, we can just execute next and break the code execution.
It's that case next week.
Oh, so that's terrible.
Okay.
So if cases admin would do that.
If the case is awesome, then we can still allow him to update didn't did the coin, but we want to
make sure that it is created by that user so we can do this thing if the comment posted by and let's
convert them using to st.
Okay.
So if comment posted by.
Does not, Matt.
Let's use for the Mets.
If the comment posted by Mets with the currently logged in users Andy, then that is the right user.
We can allow him to.
Delete added his own comments so we can execute next and then break.
Now let's take another case.
Now, if the case is
so squarer, then again we have to do the same take.
If the comment posted by Matt with the logged in, you decide.
Then we execute next.
So that is also fine.
And then we break.
Okay.
And finally, the default case by default if none of these case mats we want to send the air to Mrs..
So send the response with the status of 403 unauthorized.
Thank you.
So this is our middleware.
So we can apply this middle way in our route where we need to update and give the comment.
So it will do all the all the check if it is admin again, if it is are also in subscribe and they're
already met with the commentary, then comment positive are added, then they can.
Otherwise we throw this unauthorized error response perfect.
All right, so we had our meal, whereas well, now in the next lecture, let's work on these four control
functions to get all the comments, to get the comment count, update the comment and remove the comment.